Fix How to Structure Ballerina Code (#1462)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-www: website/two-column-pages/docs/learn/how-to-structure-ballerina-code.md

# How to Structure Ballerina Code

> This document demonstrates the development of a Ballerina project and shows how to use the `Ballerina Tool` to fetch, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document demonstrates the development of a Ballerina project together with the usage of the `Ballerina Tool` throughout the development cycle.
```

Author: Instead the term `development cycle`, IMO `fetch, build, and install Ballerina modules` is more descriptive and meaningful.

Reviewer: When we say so, it disconnects the 2 topics and gives the feeling of why we are describing 2 unrelated topics in the same document.

Author: Yes. Agreed. Ideally we need to split the document into two seperate docs.Until we get it done, shall we go with the current one?

Reviewer: +1

build, and install Ballerina modules. These commands work with repositories that are both local and remote.

Ballerina Central is a globally hosted module management system that is used to discover, download, and publish modules.

The `Ballerina Tool` requires you to organize your code in a specific way. This document explains the simplest way to 

> get up and running with a Ballerina installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
get it up and running with a Ballerina installation.
```

## Overview
* Ballerina progammers can either place their code into a single source code file or in a *project* directory.

> * A Ballerina program in a single source code file should have a `.bal` extension and an entry point (either a main 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A Ballerina program residing in a single source code file should have a `.bal` extension and an entry point (i.e., either a main 
```

>   method or a service)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  method or a service).
```

* A Ballerina *program* is a compiled and linked binary.
* A *module* is a directory that contains Ballerina source code files.
* A *repository* is a versioned collection of compiled or source code *modules*.
* A *project* atomically manages a collection of *modules*.

## Programs

> A *program* is a runtime executable, ending with a `.jar` extension. A *program* is the transitive closure of one 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A *program* is a runtime executable ending with a `.jar` extension. A *program* is the transitive closure of one 
```

> Ballerina module without including `ballerina/*` modules, since those are dynamically linked within Ballerina's runtime 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ballerina module without including `ballerina/*` modules since those are dynamically linked to Ballerina's runtime 
```

Author: IMO within is more meaningful here.

Reviewer: +1

> engine during execution. A *module* that is a *program* compiles into a file with a `.jar` extension, otherwise it is 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
engine during execution. A *module*, which is a *program* compiles into a file with a `.jar` extension. Otherwise, it is 
```

```

### Build and Run Programs
To generate an executable `.jar`, you can build a Ballerina program that contains a `main()` function or services:
```bash
$ cd /local/ballerina/src
$ ballerina build sample.bal

# This generates 'sample.jar'
```

You can use the following command to run the `main()` function or services in a generated `.jar` file:
```bash
$ ballerina run sample.jar
```

## Modules
A *module* is a directory that contains Ballerina source code files and is part of a namespace. Modules facilitate 
collaboration, sharing, and reuse. Modules can include functions, clients, constants, annotations, services, and 

> objects. To share a module among programs, projects, and users you need to push the module into a repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
objects. To share a module among programs, projects, and users, you need to push the module into a repository.
```

<li>Are referenced by `<org-name>/<module-name>` where `<org-name>` is a namespace from within a repository.</li>
</ol>

> Module names can contain alphanumeric characters including dots `.`. Dots in a module name have no meaning other 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Module names can contain alphanumeric characters including dots `.`. Dots in a module name has no meaning other 
```

import [<org-name>]/<module-name> [as <identifier>];
```

When you import a module, you can use its functions, annotations, and other objects in your code. You can also 

> reference the objects with a qualified identifier, followed by a colon `:`. For example, `<identifier>:<module-object>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reference the objects with a qualified identifier followed by a colon `:`. For example, `<identifier>:<module-object>`.
```

> Identifiers are either derived or explicit. The default identifier is either the module name, or if the module 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Identifiers are either derived or explicit. The default identifier is either the module name or if the module 
```

name has dots `.` included, then the last word after the last dot. For example, `import ballerina/http;` will 

> have `http:` be the derived identifer. The module `import ballerinax/java.jdbc` would have `jdbc:` as the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
have `http:`as the derived identifer and the module `import ballerinax/java.jdbc` would have `jdbc:` as the 
```

```

### Module Version Dependency
If your source file or module is a part of a project, then you can explicitly manage version dependencies of imported 

> modules within the project by defining it in `Ballerina.toml`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
modules within the project by defining it in the `Ballerina.toml` file:
```

```toml
[dependencies]
"wso2/twitter" = "2.3.4"
"wso2/github" = { path = "path/to/github.balo", version = "1.2.3"}
```

> Often you would want to depend on a module of another project which you haven’t pushed to the central. This can be 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Often, you would want to depend on a module of another project, which you have not pushed to the central. This can be 
```

```

### Compiled Modules
A compiled module is the compiled representation of a single module of Ballerina code, which includes transitive 
dependencies into the compiled unit.

Modules can only be created, versioned, and pushed into a repository as part of a *project*.

### Running Compiled Modules
An entrypoint such as a `main()` or a `service` that is compiled as part of a named module is automatically linked 
into a `.jar`. You can run the compiled module `.jar`:

```bash
ballerina run module.jar
```

## Projects

> * A *project* is a directory that atomically manages a collection of *modules*. It has:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A *project* is a directory, which atomically manages a collection of *modules*. It has:
```

  * A user-managed manifest file, `Ballerina.toml`

>   * A `src` folder with module source code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * An `src` folder with module source code
```

  * A `tests` folder for integration tests

> Projects are atomically managed, so dependency management, compilation, unit tests, and artifact generation are done 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Projects are managed atomically. Therefore, dependency management, compilation, unit tests, and artifact generation are done 
```

collectively across the source code files and modules defined within a project.

### Create a Project

> You can create a project using the `new` command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create a project using the `ballerina new` command:
```

```bash
ballerina new <project-name>
```

> The `new` command i will create a project directory with the given name. Ballerina project cannot reside in another 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `new` command will create a project directory with the given name. A Ballerina project cannot reside in another 
```

> ballerina project. If you run ballerina new inside a ballerina project directory or in a subpath of a ballerina project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ballerina project. If you run `ballerina new` from inside a Ballerina project directory or from inside a sub directory of a Ballerina project,
```

it will give an error.

> It will create `Ballerina.toml` file, `src` folder and a `tests` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It will create the `Ballerina.toml` file, `src` folder, and a `tests` folder.
```

### Create a Module

> Once the project is initialized, a module can be created inside the project using the `create` command. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the project is initialized, a module can be created inside the project using the `ballerina create` command. 
```

Each subdirectory of the project `src` folder defines a single module. The subdirectory's name will be used to name the 
module. 

```bash
ballerina create <module-name>
```

> The folders `tests/`, and `resources/` are reserved folder names within the module. The `tests/` folder contains module 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The folders `tests/` and `resources/` are reserved folder names within the module. The `tests/` folder contains 
```

> unit test files and `resources/` folder contains the resources for the module which will be available at runtime. Any 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
unit test files of the module and the `resources/` folder contains the resources of the module that will be available at runtime. Any 
```

additional subdirectories within the module have no semantic meaning and can be used by the developer for organizing 
files. The module subdirectories can have as many Ballerina source files and all will be included within the 
module when it is built. 

### Project Structure
```
/
    project-name/
        .gitignore

>         Balleirna.lock             # Generated during build, used to rebuild identical binary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Balleirna.lock             # Generated during the build and used to rebuild identical binary
```

>         Ballerina.toml             # Configuration that defines project intent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Ballerina.toml             # Configuratio, which  defines project intent
```

Author: Spelling mistake in the suggestion

Reviewer: Fixed.

                Module.md          # Contains descriptive metadata for display at Ballerina Central
                main.bal           # Contains the default main method
                *.bal              # In this dir and recursively in subdirs except tests/ and resources/
                [tests/]           # Module-specific unit and integration tests
                    main_test.bal  # The test file for main
                    [resources]    # Resources for the tests
                [resources/]       # Module-specific resources  
                
            module2/
                Module.md
                *.bal
                [tests/]
                [resources/]   
        tests/
            *.bal                  # Integration test files
            [resources/]           # Integration test resources
            
        target/                    # Compiled executables and other artifacts end up here
            balo/                  # BALO files, one per each module, will be created here
            bin/                   # Executables will be created here
            caches/
                bir_cache/
                jar_cache/
```

### Build a Project

> A project should be build if it is required to generate the executable JAR files from the modules in the project. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A project should be built if it is required to generate the executable JAR files from the modules in the project. The
```

> executable JAR files will be generated only if there are entry points (main method or a service) in the module.Building

Reviewer: ```suggestion
executable JAR files will be generated only if there are entry points (main method or a service) in the module. Building
```

```bash
ballerina build <module-name>
```
Use the `--skip-tests` flag with the `ballerina build` command to skip running the tests during the build process.

```bash
ballerina build --skip-tests
```

### Compile a Project

> A project should be compiled if it is required to generate the libraries (i.e BALOs) from the modules in the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A project should be compiled if it is required to generate the libraries (i.e., BALOs) from the modules in the project.
```

> Compiling a project will compile all modules found in the project's root folder. Building a project runs through phases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compiling a project will compile all the modules found in the project's root folder. Building a project runs through phases
```

version = “string”
```

All modules built in a project are assigned the same version. If you need two modules to have different versions, then 
those modules should be placed into different projects.

Version labels must follow [Semantic Versioning 2.0 rules](https://semver.org/).

### Assign an Organization Name to a Module
A module is assigned an `<org-name>` when it is pushed into a repository. The `<org-name>` is defined in the 
`Ballerina.toml` and all modules in the same project are assigned the same organization name:

```toml
# Org name assigned to modules when installed into a repository
org-name = “tyler”
```

## Module Caches

### Caches

Ballerina will maintain several caches to speed up the compile and build process. Following artifacts will be cached by 

> ballerina.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ballerina.
```

> * BALO files fetched from central.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* BALO files fetched from Central.
```

> * BIR files generated during the compile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* BIR files generated during the compilation.
```

> * JAR file generated during the compile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* JAR file generated during the compilation
```

> Here the balo cache will be common across any version of ballerina and BIR and JAR cache will be ballerina version specific.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, the BALO cache will be common across any version of Ballerina and the BIR and JAR caches will be specific to the Ballerina version.  
```

#### BALO Cache

> BALO cache is responsible of keeping BALOs of dependent modules. There is a BALO cache inside the Ballerina 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
BALO cache is responsible for keeping BALOs of dependent modules. There is a BALO cache inside the Ballerina 
```

> distribution which contains the BALOs of libraries that will get packed into the distribution. There is another cache 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
distribution, which contains the BALOs of libraries that will get packed into the distribution. There is another cache 
```

> at the user's home repository which is used to cache the BALOs fetched from central. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
at the user's home repository, which is used to cache the BALOs fetched from Central. 
```

#### BIR Cache

> BIR files of the standard library that gets pack in to a distribution are generated during the distribution build time. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
BIR files of the standard library that gets packed into a distribution are generated during the distribution build time. 
```

The BIR files of the other dependencies will be kept inside the target directory when compiling a Ballerina project. 

#### JAR Cache

The JAR files generated during the build will be kept inside the target directory when building a Ballerina project. The
JAR file will be generated only if there is an entry point (main funtion or service) within the module.

## Module Repository - Ballerina Central

> A repository is a collection of compiled Ballerina modules. A repository helps organize modules used by multiple 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A repository is a collection of compiled Ballerina modules. A repository helps to organize modules used by multiple 
```

> programs by managing their versions and assets in a central location. Ballerina central, located at the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
programs by managing their versions and assets in a central location. [Ballerina Central]
```

> [http://central.ballerina.io](http://central.ballerina.io) is the only module repository for Ballerina developers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(http://central.ballerina.io) is the only module repository for Ballerina developers.
```

### Organizations
An organization is a logical name used for grouping modules together under a common namespace within a repository.

All modules installed into a repository must have an organization name. Any installation or pushing of a module into a 
repository will fail without an organization name.

Organization names can contain lowercase alphanumeric characters and underscores. None of the characters in an 
organization name have any semantic meaning.

The organization names `ballerina` and `ballerinax` are reserved for system use. Modules in `ballerina` and 
`ballerinax` are included within the system distribution.

At Ballerina Central, every account is assigned a personal organization name, which is chosen by a 

> user when first creating their account or derived from the email address of the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
user when creating their account initially or is derived from the email address of the user.
```

When pushing a module from a local computer into Ballerina Central, the user's organization name in the Ballerina 

> Central MUST match the `<org-name>` assigned in the Ballerina.toml. If the names do not match, then the push operation 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Central MUST match the `<org-name>` assigned in the `Ballerina.toml` file. If the names do not match, then the push operation 
```

> will fail. This enforcement may seem arbitrary, however, it is a simple way to ensure organization naming consistency 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will fail. This enforcement may seem arbitrary. However, it is a simple way to ensure organization naming consistency 
```

across remote and local development environments.

### Pulling Remote Modules

> You can install modules that exist in Ballerina Central into your BALO cache in home directory through "pulling". 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can install modules that exist in Ballerina Central into your BALO cache in the home directory via "pulling" them. 
```

> Pulling a module discovers and downloads the module source and binaries from Ballerina Central and installs it into the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pulling a module discovers and downloads the module source and binaries from Ballerina Central and installs them into the 
```

BALO cache. 

```bash
ballerina pull <org-name>/<module-name>[:<version>]
```

If a version is not specified for the module to be pulled, the latest version of the module will be pulled from the 

> Ballerina Central. Projects that perform dependency analysis will automatically pull modules into the BALO cache in home

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ballerina Central. Projects that perform dependency analysis will automatically pull modules into the BALO cache in the home
```

directory.

### Pushing Modules
"Pushing" a module uploads the associated module files and installs the module into Ballerina Central.

The org-name and the version of the module will be read from the manifest file `Ballerina.toml` inside the project.

> It is required to build the module before pushing to Ballerina Central.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is required to build the module before pushing it to Ballerina Central.
```

                                                                                                
```
# Push a single module
ballerina push <module-name>
```
### Configure Ballerina Central Access

Ballerina Central requires an account in order to push modules. Your account is represented by a CLI token that is 

> installed into your local Ballerina configuration file, located at `~/.ballerina/Settings.toml`. The CLI token is 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
installed into your local Ballerina configuration file located in the `~/.ballerina/Settings.toml` file. The CLI token is 
```

Author: IMO the suggestion you have made is incorrect. We should remove the word `file` at the end as it is repetitive.

Reviewer: Sorry, my bad. We can change it as "installed into the `~/.ballerina/Settings.toml` file, which is your  local Ballerina configuration file."

Author: As per the offline discussion changed into "installed into your local Ballerina configuration file, i.e., `~/.ballerina/Settings.toml`".

automatically installed into this file the first time you perform a `ballerina push` as Ballerina redirects to an 
OAuth authorization screen, configures your account, and then copies your CLI token from Ballerina Central into your 
local CLI configuration. To get your token, register on Ballerina Central and visit the 
[Ballerina Central Dashboard](https://central.ballerina.io/dashboard).

> Every push of the same module into Ballerina Central REQUIRES a new version, even for minor text updates. We enforce 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every push of the same module into Ballerina Central REQUIRES a new version even for minor text updates. 
```

> this policy to ensure that projects that make use of dependencies cannot experience accidental behavior drift across 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This policy is enforced to ensure that projects, which make use of dependencies cannot experience accidental behavior drift across 
```

two versions of the same module given the same version. Essentially, there is no way to "update" a module for a specific 

> version at Ballerina Central.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
version in Ballerina Central.
```
